README.md, before:

---
name: Azure Functions C# HTTP Trigger using Azure Developer CLI
description: This repository contains an Azure Functions HTTP trigger quickstart written in C# and deployed to Azure Functions Flex Consumption using the Azure Developer CLI (azd). The sample uses managed identity and a virtual network to make sure deployment is secure by default.
page_type: sample
products:
- azure-functions
- azure
- entra-id
urlFragment: starter-http-trigger-csharp
languages:
- csharp
- bicep
- azdeveloper
---

# Azure Functions C# HTTP Trigger using Azure Developer CLI

This template repository contains an HTTP trigger reference sample for functions written in C# (isolated process mode) and deployed to Azure using the Azure Developer CLI (`azd`). The sample uses managed identity and a virtual network to make sure deployment is secure by default.

This project is designed to run on your local computer. You can also:

[![Open in GitHub Codespaces](https://github.com/codespaces/badge.svg)](https://github.com/codespaces/new?hide_repo_select=true&ref=main&repo=836901178)

## Prerequisites

+ [.NET 8 SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/dotnet/8.0)
+ [Azure Functions Core Tools](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/azure-functions/functions-run-local?pivots=programming-language-csharp#install-the-azure-functions-core-tools)
+ To use Visual Studio to run and debug locally:
  + [Visual Studio 2022](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/vs/).
  + Make sure to select the **Azure development** workload during installation.
+ To use Visual Studio Code to run and debug locally:
  + [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/)
  + [Azure Functions extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-azuretools.vscode-azurefunctions)

## Initialize the local project

You can initialize a project from this `azd` template in one of these ways:

+ Use this `azd init` command from an empty local (root) folder:

    ```shell
    azd init --template functions-quickstart-dotnet-azd
    ```

    Supply an environment name, such as `flexquickstart` when prompted. In `azd`, the environment is used to maintain a unique deployment context for your app.

+ Clone the GitHub template repository locally using the `git clone` command:

    ```shell
    git clone https://github.com/Azure-Samples/functions-quickstart-dotnet-azd.git
    cd functions-quickstart-dotnet-azd
    ```

    You can also clone the repository from your own fork in GitHub.

## Prepare your local environment

1. Navigate to the `http` app folder and create a file in that folder named _local.settings.json_ that contains this JSON data:

    ```json
    {
        "IsEncrypted": false,
        "Values": {
            "AzureWebJobsStorage": "UseDevelopmentStorage=true",
            "FUNCTIONS_WORKER_RUNTIME": "dotnet-isolated"
        }
    }
    ```

## Run your app from the terminal

1. From the `http` folder, run this command to start the Functions host locally:

    ```shell
    func start
    ```

2. From your HTTP test tool in a new terminal (or from your browser), call the HTTP GET endpoint: <http://localhost:7071/api/httpget>

3. Test the HTTP POST trigger with a payload using your favorite secure HTTP test tool. This example uses the `curl` tool with payload data from the [`testdata.json`](./http/testdata.json) project file:

    ```shell
    curl -i http://localhost:7071/api/httppost -H "Content-Type: text/json" -d @testdata.json
    ```

## Run your app using Visual Studio Code

1. Open the `http` app folder in a new terminal.
1. Run the `code .` code command to open the project in Visual Studio Code.
1. Press **Run/Debug (F5)** to run in the debugger. Select **Debug anyway** if prompted about local emulator not running.
1. Send GET and POST requests to the `httpget` and `httppost` endpoints respectively using your HTTP test tool (or browser for `httpget`). If you have the [RestClient](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=humao.rest-client) extension installed, you can execute requests directly from the [`test.http`](./http/test.http) project file.

## Run your app using Visual Studio

1. Open the `http.sln` solution file in Visual Studio.
1. Press **Run/F5** to run in the debugger. Make a note of the `localhost` URL endpoints, including the port, which might not be `7071`.
1. Send GET and POST requests to the `httpget` and `httppost` endpoints respectively using your HTTP test tool (or browser for `httpget`). If you have the [RestClient](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=humao.rest-client) extension installed, you can execute requests directly from the [`test.http`](./http/test.http) project file.

## Source Code

The function code for the `httpget` and `httppost` endpoints are defined in [`httpGetFunction.cs`](./http/httpGetFunction.cs) and [`httpPostBodyFunction.cs`](./http/httpPostBodyFunction.cs), respectively. The `Function` attribute applied to the async `Run` method sets the name of the function endpoint.

This code shows an HTTP GET (webhook):  

```csharp
[Function("httpget")]
public IActionResult Run([HttpTrigger(AuthorizationLevel.Function, "get")]
    HttpRequest req,
    string name)
{
    var returnValue = string.IsNullOrEmpty(name)
        ? "Hello, World."
        : $"Hello, {name}.";

    _logger.LogInformation($"C# HTTP trigger function processed a request for {returnValue}.");

    return new OkObjectResult(returnValue);
}
```

This code shows the HTTP POST that received a JSON formatted `person` object in the request body and returns a message using the values in the payload:

```csharp
[Function("httppost")]
public IActionResult Run([HttpTrigger(AuthorizationLevel.Function, "post")] HttpRequest req,
    [FromBody] Person person)
{
    _logger.LogInformation($"C# HTTP POST trigger function processed a request for url {req.Body}");

    if (string.IsNullOrEmpty(person.Name) | string.IsNullOrEmpty(person.Age.ToString()) | person.Age == 0)
    {
        _logger.LogInformation("C# HTTP POST trigger function processed a request with no name/age provided.");
        return new BadRequestObjectResult("Please provide both name and age in the request body.");
    }

    var returnValue = $"Hello, {person.Name}! You are {person.Age} years old.";
    
    _logger.LogInformation($"C# HTTP POST trigger function processed a request for {person.Name} who is {person.Age} years old.");
    return new OkObjectResult(returnValue);
}
```

## Deploy to Azure

Run this command to provision the function app, with any required Azure resources, and deploy your code:

```shell
azd up
```

You're prompted to supply these required deployment parameters:

| Parameter | Description |
| ---- | ---- |
| _Environment name_ | An environment that's used to maintain a unique deployment context for your app. You won't be prompted if you created the local project using `azd init`.|
| _Azure subscription_ | Subscription in which your resources are created.|
| _Azure location_ | Azure region in which to create the resource group that contains the new Azure resources. Only regions that currently support the Flex Consumption plan are shown.|

## Redeploy your code

You can run the `azd up` command as many times as you need to both provision your Azure resources and deploy code updates to your function app.

>[!NOTE]
>Deployed code files are always overwritten by the latest deployment package.

## Clean up resources

When you're done working with your function app and related resources, you can use this command to delete the function app and its related resources from Azure and avoid incurring any further costs:

```shell
azd down
```

Commit message:

Readme cleanup + ignore Azurite files

README.md, after:

---
name: Azure Functions C# HTTP Trigger using Azure Developer CLI
description: This repository contains an Azure Functions HTTP trigger quickstart written in C# and deployed to Azure Functions Flex Consumption using the Azure Developer CLI (azd). The sample uses managed identity and a virtual network to make sure deployment is secure by default.
page_type: sample
products:
- azure-functions
- azure
- entra-id
urlFragment: starter-http-trigger-csharp
languages:
- csharp
- bicep
- azdeveloper
---

# Azure Functions C# HTTP Trigger using Azure Developer CLI

This template repository contains an HTTP trigger reference sample for functions written in C# (isolated process mode) and deployed to Azure using the Azure Developer CLI (`azd`). The sample uses managed identity and a virtual network to make sure deployment is secure by default.

This project is designed to run on your local computer. You can also use GitHub Codespaces:

[![Open in GitHub Codespaces](https://github.com/codespaces/badge.svg)](https://github.com/codespaces/new?hide_repo_select=true&ref=main&repo=836901178)

This codespace is already configured with the required tools to complete this tutorial using either `azd` or Visual Studio Code. If you're working a codespace, skip down to [Prepare your local environment](#prepare-your-local-environment).

## Prerequisites

+ [.NET 8 SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/dotnet/8.0)
+ [Azure Functions Core Tools](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/azure-functions/functions-run-local?pivots=programming-language-csharp#install-the-azure-functions-core-tools)
+ To use Visual Studio to run and debug locally:
  + [Visual Studio 2022](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/vs/).
  + Make sure to select the **Azure development** workload during installation.
+ To use Visual Studio Code to run and debug locally:
  + [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/)
  + [Azure Functions extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-azuretools.vscode-azurefunctions)

## Initialize the local project

You can initialize a project from this `azd` template in one of these ways:

+ Use this `azd init` command from an empty local (root) folder:

    ```shell
    azd init --template functions-quickstart-dotnet-azd
    ```

    Supply an environment name, such as `flexquickstart` when prompted. In `azd`, the environment is used to maintain a unique deployment context for your app.

+ Clone the GitHub template repository locally using the `git clone` command:

    ```shell
    git clone https://github.com/Azure-Samples/functions-quickstart-dotnet-azd.git
    cd functions-quickstart-dotnet-azd
    ```

    You can also clone the repository from your own fork in GitHub.

## Prepare your local environment

1. Navigate to the `http` app folder and create a file in that folder named _local.settings.json_ that contains this JSON data:

    ```json
    {
        "IsEncrypted": false,
        "Values": {
            "AzureWebJobsStorage": "UseDevelopmentStorage=true",
            "FUNCTIONS_WORKER_RUNTIME": "dotnet-isolated"
        }
    }
    ```

## Run your app from the terminal

1. From the `http` folder, run this command to start the Functions host locally:

    ```shell
    func start
    ```

1. From your HTTP test tool in a new terminal (or from your browser), call the HTTP GET endpoint: <http://localhost:7071/api/httpget>

1. Test the HTTP POST trigger with a payload using your favorite secure HTTP test tool. This example uses the `curl` tool with payload data from the [`testdata.json`](./http/testdata.json) project file:

    ### Cmd\bash
	
    ```shell
    curl -i http://localhost:7071/api/httppost -H "Content-Type: text/json" -d @testdata.json
    ```
    
    You can also use the `Invoke-RestMethod` cmdlet in PowerShell:

    ### PowerShell
	
	```powershell
    Invoke-RestMethod -Uri http://localhost:7129/api/httppost -Method Post -ContentType "application/json" -InFile "testdata.json"
    ```

1. When you're done, press Ctrl+C in the terminal window to stop the `func.exe` host process.

## Run your app using Visual Studio Code

1. Open the `http` app folder in a new terminal.
1. Run the `code .` code command to open the project in Visual Studio Code.
1. In the command palette (F1), type `Azurite: Start`, which enables debugging without warnings.
1. Press **Run/Debug (F5)** to run in the debugger. Select **Debug anyway** if prompted about local emulator not running.
1. Send GET and POST requests to the `httpget` and `httppost` endpoints respectively using your HTTP test tool (or browser for `httpget`). If you have the [RestClient](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=humao.rest-client) extension installed, you can execute requests directly from the [`test.http`](./http/test.http) project file.

## Run your app using Visual Studio

1. Open the `http.sln` solution file in Visual Studio.
1. Press **Run/F5** to run in the debugger. Make a note of the `localhost` URL endpoints, including the port, which might not be `7071`.
1. Open the [`test.http`](./http/test.http) project file, update the port on the `localhost` URL (if needed), and then use the built-in HTTP client to call the `httpget` and `httppost` endpoints.

## Source Code

The function code for the `httpget` and `httppost` endpoints are defined in [`httpGetFunction.cs`](./http/httpGetFunction.cs) and [`httpPostBodyFunction.cs`](./http/httpPostBodyFunction.cs), respectively. The `Function` attribute applied to the async `Run` method sets the name of the function endpoint.

This code shows an HTTP GET (webhook):  

```csharp
[Function("httpget")]
public IActionResult Run([HttpTrigger(AuthorizationLevel.Function, "get")]
    HttpRequest req,
    string name)
{
    var returnValue = string.IsNullOrEmpty(name)
        ? "Hello, World."
        : $"Hello, {name}.";

    _logger.LogInformation($"C# HTTP trigger function processed a request for {returnValue}.");

    return new OkObjectResult(returnValue);
}
```

This code shows the HTTP POST that received a JSON formatted `person` object in the request body and returns a message using the values in the payload:

```csharp
[Function("httppost")]
public IActionResult Run([HttpTrigger(AuthorizationLevel.Function, "post")] HttpRequest req,
    [FromBody] Person person)
{
    _logger.LogInformation($"C# HTTP POST trigger function processed a request for url {req.Body}");

    if (string.IsNullOrEmpty(person.Name) | string.IsNullOrEmpty(person.Age.ToString()) | person.Age == 0)
    {
        _logger.LogInformation("C# HTTP POST trigger function processed a request with no name/age provided.");
        return new BadRequestObjectResult("Please provide both name and age in the request body.");
    }

    var returnValue = $"Hello, {person.Name}! You are {person.Age} years old.";
    
    _logger.LogInformation($"C# HTTP POST trigger function processed a request for {person.Name} who is {person.Age} years old.");
    return new OkObjectResult(returnValue);
}
```

## Deploy to Azure

Run this command to provision the function app, with any required Azure resources, and deploy your code:

```shell
azd up
```

You're prompted to supply these required deployment parameters:

| Parameter | Description |
| ---- | ---- |
| _Environment name_ | An environment that's used to maintain a unique deployment context for your app. You won't be prompted if you created the local project using `azd init`.|
| _Azure subscription_ | Subscription in which your resources are created.|
| _Azure location_ | Azure region in which to create the resource group that contains the new Azure resources. Only regions that currently support the Flex Consumption plan are shown.|

## Redeploy your code

You can run the `azd up` command as many times as you need to both provision your Azure resources and deploy code updates to your function app.

>[!NOTE]
>Deployed code files are always overwritten by the latest deployment package.

## Clean up resources

When you're done working with your function app and related resources, you can use this command to delete the function app and its related resources from Azure and avoid incurring any further costs:

```shell
azd down
```
